
Simple Queries:

List all the employee details
List all the department details
List all job details
List all the locations
List out first name,last name,salary, commission for all employees
List out employee_id,last name,department id for all  employees and rename employee id as “ID  of the employee”, last name as “Name of the employee”, department id as  “department  ID”
List out the employees anuual salary with their names only.


Where Conditions:

List the details about “SMITH”
List out the employees who are working in department 20
List out the employees who are earning salary between 3000 and 4500
List out the employees who are working in department 10 or 20
Find out the employees who are not working in department 10 or 30
List out the employees whose name starts with “S”
List out the employees whose name start with “S” and end with “H”
List out the employees whose name length is 4 and start with “S”
List out the employees who are working in department 10 and draw the salaries more than 3500
list out the employees who are not receiving commission.

Order By Clause:

List out the employee id, last name in ascending order based on the employee id.
List out the employee id, name in descending order based on salary column
list out the employee details according to their last_name in ascending order and salaries in descending order
list out the employee details according to their last_name in ascending order and then on department_id in descending order.


Group By & Having Clause:

How many employees who are working in different departments wise in the organization
List out the department wise maximum salary, minimum salary, average salary of the employees
List out the job wise maximum salary, minimum salary, average salaries of the employees.
List out the no.of employees joined in every month in ascending order.
List out the no.of employees for each month and year, in the ascending order based on the year, month.
List out the department id having atleast four employees.
How many employees in January month.
How many employees who are joined in January or September month.
How many employees who are joined in 1985.
How many employees joined each month in 1985.
How many employees who are joined in March 1985.
Which is the department id, having greater than or equal to 3 employees joined in April 1985.


Sub-Queries

Display the employee who got the maximum salary.
Display the employees who are working in Sales department
Display the employees who are working as “Clerk”.
Display the employees who are working in “New York”
Find out no.of employees working in “Sales” department.
Update the employees salaries, who are working as Clerk on the basis of 10%.
Delete the employees who are working in accounting department.
Display the second highest salary drawing employee details.
Display the Nth highest salary drawing employee details


Sub-Query operators: (ALL,ANY,SOME,EXISTS)

List out the employees who earn more than every employee in department 30.
List out the employees who earn more than the lowest salary in department 30.
Find out whose department has not employees.
Find out which department does not have any employees.


Co-Related Sub Queries:

47.Find out the employees who earn greater than the average salary for their department.

Joins
Simple join

48.List our employees with their department names
49.Display employees with their designations (jobs)
50.Display the employees with their department name and regional groups.
51.How many employees who are working in different departments and display with department name.
52.How many employees who are working in sales department.
53.Which is the department having greater than or equal to 5 employees and display the department names in ascending order.
54.How many jobs in the organization with designations.
55.How many employees working in “New York”.

Non – Equi Join:

56.Display employee details with salary grades.
57.List out the no. of employees on grade wise.
58.Display the employ salary grades and no. of employees between 2000 to 5000 range of salary.


Self Join:

59.Display the employee details with their manager names.
60.Display the employee details who earn more than their managers salaries.
61.Show the no. of employees working under every manager.

Outer Join:

61.Display employee details with all departments.
62.Display all employees in sales or operation departments.


Set Operators:

63.List out the distinct jobs in Sales and Accounting Departments.
64.List out the ALL jobs in Sales and Accounting Departments.
65.List out the common jobs in Research and Accounting Departments in ascending order.